and let's remind you of our top story
the Israeli Army is raiding gaza's
largest hospital with thousands of
civilians are Sheltering it says its
forces are conducting an operation
within specific areas of the shiffer
compound earlier Hospital officials said
Israel warned them that it would raid
the facility within minutes air strikes
have bombarded the area for days and
tanks have now surrounded the hospital
let's stay with us we're joined Now by r
m a professor of international law at
Queens University and he's also a former
un official who served in Gaza thank you
very much for your time what do you make
of the statement from Hamas that the US
government has essentially given Israel
the green light to go into shiffer
hospital because just hours before they
did we heard from the US National
Security spokesperson John Kirby who
said that the US had its own evidence
that Hamas operates from hospitals from
alefa hospital despite not providing any
evidence um but that air strikes on the
hospital are not
okay well look uh if the Israelis and
the Americans have specific evidence uh
to demonstrate that a civilian object in
this case a shifa hospital has been
converted into a military one it's
incumbent upon them to produce that
evidence and they have yet to do so and
so when the attacking party in this case
the Israelis claim something they have
to produce the evidence and failure to
do so results in one conclusion that the
civilian character of the hospital is to
be presumed under international law and
therefore immune from Attack based on
the information that I've been hearing
over the course of this segment of your
report the fact that the Israelis are
physically in the hospital means that
we're in a really sensitive time with
thousands of people in the hospital uh
civilians that is um and uh that means
that it's only a matter of time that
these Israelis will have an opportunity
to produce this
evidence um Israel's repeated claims
that its military intelligence has
evidence to
substantiate um uh the fact that it's
claims that the this hospital is being
used as as a military uh base uh
um have yet to be demonstrated and so
absent that uh there's not going to be
much to go on and Mr imai
as we've been reporting Israel has never
provided any evidence that Hamas uses
hospitals to carry out operations and
they haven't been verified by a third
party but even if that was the case is
there anything that justifies and we've
been hearing from Human Rights Watch
earlier in this program and they were
saying that that nothing justifies the
kind of attacks that we've seen on
hospitals are we seeing war crimes
unfolding in front of our
eyes well we certainly have seen war
crimes unfolding before our eyes over
the course of this month um in respect
of what's happening in shifa right now
uh it's hard to say uh what we can say
is that the object being a hospital is a
civilian object and until such time as
the Israelis provide proof that it has
been converted into a military object
that as I said earlier uh uh that
civilian nature of the object does not
change now the obvious thing to do of
course is to allow a third party into
the territory into the hospital the
Israelis if they've got it surrounded by
tanks have controlled the area and given
the heightened sensitivities of their
claim that this Hospital's been used by
and abused by par Palestinian
paramilitaries they should I I think
reasonably invite third parties in there
are third parties available the
international Committee of the red cross
the United Nations Commission of inquiry
on Israel Palestine I'm certain that
they would stand ready yeah um to enter
the hospital to to corroborate any
claims the Israelis make um but given
the historical record of Israeli claims
of this sort never having been proved uh
by the Israelis or ex postao see the
Goldstone report for instance of 2009 as
an example or even most recently the the
raid of the Israelis on the rentis
hospital where film footage which I
watched earlier today reports to show a
list of Palestinian terrorists uh and so
on all one needs to do is read that list
in the Arabic language and you would see
that it only shows the days the days of
the week listed yeah yeah I mean so the
claims really aren't
substantiated and again as I say there's
a major credibility problem for the
Israelis they they claim their Military
Intelligence demonstrates that this
hospital has been used and is being used
but as we speak even though as a basis
of Palestinian paramilitary AC action
and this is the same military
intelligence that failed to identify or
or anticipate the October
7th on it despite the credibility
problem the there's also a great
accountability problem is there not
because this is not the first time that
Israel has attacked hospitals and I'm
not talking about um the first time
since October 7th I mean Israel has been
attacking hospitals for years has it
ever being held accountable for
that well the short answer is no it's
not ever been held accountable because
the International Community has not um
uh uh made Israel and held Israel to
account for it um as an occupying power
Israel has an obligation to ensure the
protection of the civilian population
subject to its military occupation not
to persecute it not to Target it it must
treat it humanely and so on and we've
seen the exact opposite take place over
the course of the past month um while
Israel may have had an obligation to
protect its citizens from the attacks of
7 October it's gone well beyond anything
proportionate or necessary to repel
those attacks since October the 7th and
for the past month has killed thousands
over 11,000 Palestinians 45 over 4,500
Palestinian civilians and so on and yeah
4500 Palestinian children Mr Miz I'm so
sorry to interrupt but we have run out
of time but we thank you so much for
being with us and sharing your expertise
on the subject we really appreciate it